Okay,
guys,
we're moving along nicely.
So far,
we've built a couple of Mac Rose.
We have gone through them step by step,
use in the F eight of observing what they do in the worksheet.
We've deleted the redundant code,
the code that didn't do anything on.
We've streamlined the code that's remained.
We've also learned how to use the private statement in front of a subroutine so they can't
be called from the macro window on.
We've also learned how to call Mac Rose sequentially.
So in execute different modules of code in the order that we want to use them,
they're so far,
so good.
And you may well be thinking,
Wow,
I can get away without learning to do any program in.
All I need to use is the built in translator Golden rial number 12.
Andi,
just record a macro,
and that's gonna give me everything I want.
Well,
we're going to record another macro here on.
We're gonna learn exactly why that isn't the case and where you do need to learn how to
program properly.
Okay,
so let's just record a simple macro.
Let's imagine than on our totals just here What we want to do is we're gonna record a macro
.
So we're going to select from here to hear on.
We're gonna apply a double overline.
So which I think isn't accounting practice if I think back two years ago when I stood
against and see,
So I'm just going to start a macro recording s so I'm gonna hit the little button down here
.
So there you go.
I'm going to call it a double over lane because I can't think of a better name,
but that really does describe what it does.
I'm not assign a keyboard shortcut.
Keep Andi,
I'm gonna hit.
OK,
now I am recording,
So I want to select here through here.
This is what I want to do.
I want to go to Borders.
I want to go to Mawr.
Borders.
I want the double over Lane on.
I wanted at the top,
and I want to click.
OK,
now the mess.
Select a one at the end,
and that does that perfectly.
That's exactly what I wanted to do.
Okay,
so I am no gonna hit the stop recording.
Andi,
I am gonna undo what I just did because I did this in excel.
I still have the undue options.
So they go were back to normal.
So Ultimate 11 let's have a look at the code we are now in module three on.
That is the code that we have just recorded.
So let's copy that code.
Let's dump it in.
Module one will put it at the end.
So I'm just gonna go to the bottom.
You can put a top if you want or in between subs wherever you want to put it.
So I'm just going to come down the bottom it control on P and paste it in.
So there we go.
We have our double overline sub.
I'm gonna delete the remarks out there and just say add one myself.
This adds a double over lying to two towels on a smiley face because I'm feeling
particularly happy.
Okay,
So if we have look what it does,
it says range.
Bm like be 16 to m 16 but you're free.
Flip back also left 11 toggles between the two is from B 16 through em 16.
I think you're right.
Be 16 m 16.
Selection dot borders,
excel,
diagonal,
down line style equals known.
I probably think we don't need that.
So I'm going to rent that out until we contest it.
I am going to remedy Max.
That says that,
um I have a select and I have with selection,
so I can probably streamline.
That occurred a little bit on.
I do have dot borders,
Exel edge top,
which sounds pretty much like it's going to put something in the top edge Excel line,
Excel double.
That certainly sounds true.
I wouldn't We didn't do anything with color,
so I'm gonna leave the color remnant out Tintin shade.
Just like before is zero on.
I'm gonna ram that out on Gothic.
Maybe something that I do need S o I can't recall what these things did.
No,
no,
no.
I'm gonna assume they are not needed.
Onda the end there.
I selected arrange a want to e one.
I'm just going to change that one just to see what happens.
Even though submerge sound,
we'll see what happens.
So let us split that so we can see the two windows.
That should be enough,
to be honest with you.
So from here,
we're going to go f eight bump on.
We're going to go two range B m.
Sorry.
Be 16 to M 16.
Select.
Absolutely.
That's good.
Immediately was skipped all of this long.
We've gone from the select with the selection Borders,
Excel top sounding like it's about right line Style equals X l double.
And we can already see that that has come a little deeper.
They're lying.
16 just increased.
Which seems to suggest that excited lines I'm gonna hit f eight again thick end with and go
back to one.
And yet that did absolutely everything that we wanted it today.
Now we started with 123456789 10 11 12 13 lines of code on.
We managed to weed it down to the 123456 lines of code that we actually wanted.
So what I'm gonna do is delete the stuff we don't want.
Andi.
Okay,
on delete that because we don't want that.
And I'm gonna delete those because I don't think we want those.
Just line those up go clips on that looks nice and pretty.
So they go much shorter code,
which should execute a lot quicker.
Now you'll notice because we did this in vb a and not in excel we could hit Undo on Excel
which is just gonna put back what we just did in the V b a window eso head on due on the V
b a window and does what we did in the V b a window.
But if we come to excel,
we do not have an undo function.
Now you'll remember from the 15 golden rules of coding number one work on a backup.
There is no undue on.
That is a demonstration of this.
We've just done exactly what we did when we recorded the macro.
But because we were in excel,
we have the on the option.
But now we're not in excel.
We cannot undo.
So all I'm gonna have to do here is literally choose that format copy and paste it over to
get back to where we were.
Okay,
so this is our code.
We can happily run it.
I'm just gonna hit play.
I've deleted too much and do a few times a go with selection borders,
so it knows what we're doing.
So we are selecting.
We are working with that selection.
We are working with the borders property off selection.
We are working on the Exel edge.
Top on we are with those using the line Stein,
Excel,
Double await,
Excel thick and we're ending the with going back there.
So hopefully that should work.
Boom,
they go.
That works perfectly.
So there's our first bear code.
Works beautifully,
so that's north.
Let's go to South and do exactly the same thing.
They will run out.
Join these together so we can get the highlights.
Working boom.
And there that goes on.
Let's come down to double overline and click that Fantastic.
This is working beautifully,
so we've done north with Down South.
Let's go to East F 11.
Do the formatting thing.
Play fantastic.
Do the double over line play.
No,
that didn't do exactly what we wanted it to do.
Because if we look back at North,
we have a double overline.
If you look at South,
we had a double overline,
but you'll also notice the totals are online.
16 in the northern region,
their online 16 in the southern region.
On in the eastern region.
We have one less shop,
so they are on line 15.
If we look at the code,
it did exactly what we asked it to do.
It selected be 16 to m 16 on,
then performed these functions on that selected range.
Unfortunately,
that selected range is not where the totals live in the eastern region.
So just a complete let's Have a look at West West is also online.
So West is not gonna work on the annual sales.
That's totally different.
The annual sales are online.
So the first few macros who did work beautifully because it used a built in function of
finding the formulas that resulted in a number that worked fantastic but the last macro
recorded worked great on North and South.
But that was purely coincidental because the totals both happened to live on row 16.
So what we need to do now is apply some logic to be able to work out how to find which road
to perform these actions in Now.
So far,
we have recorded a few Macron's on.
We have a few useful phrases,
but we're gonna need a few more before we can start a playing logic on writing code
properly.
So in the next section,
what we're gonna do is we're going to start building a macro workbook.
Now,
I have one that have already completed,
and I'm just gonna add things into this one so you can download it and you'll have them too
.
But we'll have a quick whizz through each of the functions.
There are gonna be the basic bread and butter things.
And they were gonna look at playing some logic and looping,
which is when you get into code and properly the thing to be worried about.
We'll go through it,
step by step,
and I guarantee you,
by the end of this course,
you'll be doing this with your eyes closed.
So we'll come back to this project once we have a few more phrases in our phrasebook on.
We will code this properly.
Okay,
I'll see you in the next section.